Hh/first feature flag quickstart (#348)
Eppo-exp/eppo-docs: docs/quick-starts/feature-flag-quickstart.md

---
slug: /feature-flag-quickstart
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Creating your first feature flag

> This 10 minute guide will walk through running your first feature flag with Eppo. In the example we'll imagine that we are testing a new checkout page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This 10 minute guide will walk through creating your first feature flag in Eppo. In the example, we'll imagine that we are adding a basic on/off switch for a new onboarding page.
```

> While Eppo feature flags can be used for feature gates, kill switches, and targeted rollouts, this guide will focus on using Eppo flags for running randomized experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While Eppo's SDK can be used for targeted rollouts, A/B/n experiments, and personalization via Contextual Bandits, this guide will focus on creating a simple on/off switch in Eppo.
```

> 

Reviewer: I guess you can't propose changes on lines that are not part of the diff? 

We should drop this sentence for the feature flagging page:

> Note that if you are using Eppo alongside an existing randomization tool, you can skip right to the [next quick start](/experiment-quickstart).

Author: done

![Feature gate 1](/img/feature-flagging/feature-flag-qs-1.png)

### 3. Create a Feature Gate allocation

After creating the flag, switch into the Test environment:

![Feature gate 2](/img/feature-flagging/feature-flag-qs-2.png)

> Now that you're in the Test environment, add a Feature Gate allocation to your flag. If you want to force certain segments or users into one variant, you can also add a Feature Gate allocation. You can read more about using Eppo for Feature Gates [here](/feature-flagging/feature-gates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you're in the Test environment, add a Feature Gate allocation to your flag:
```

![Feature gate 3](/img/feature-flagging/feature-gate-setup-1.png)

For this example, we will assign all users to the experiment. If you want to target specific users, you can add targeting rules to the allocation. You can read more about targeting [here](/feature-flagging/targeting).

![Feature gate 4](/img/feature-flagging/feature-gate-setup-3.png)

> ### 4. Connect a logging function to the Eppo SDK

Reviewer: We can skip logging for the sake of this guide.

Reviewer: If so, we should update the initialization code to not have an event logger

Author: done

> Note that the `get<Type>Assignment` methods in Eppo are deterministic, meaning that they will always return the same variant for a given subject (e.g., user) throughout the experiment.

Author: Let me update the language, I could see users wanting to use a string or json type flag for flagging use cases -- but that might be in a category of more 'advanced' use cases that aren't necessary for a quickstart

> ### 7. Turn on the flag for users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 7. Turn on the flag
```
